README.md, before:

Webgriffe ESB
=============

Simple, beanstalkd powered, ESB framework.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/webgriffe/esb.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/webgriffe/esb)

Introduction
------------

Webgriffe ESB is a PHP framework that aims to speed up the development of [Enterprise Service Buses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_service_bus).

It uses [Beanstalkd](http://kr.github.io/beanstalkd/) as a queue engine and it's built on top of popular open-sourced libraries like:

* [Amp](http://amphp.org/)
* [Symfony's Dependency Injection](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection.html)
* [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog)

Architecture & Core concepts
----------------------------

Integrating different systems together is a matter of data flows. With Webgriffe ESB every data flow goes, one way, from a system to another through a Beanstalkd **tube**. Every tube must have a **producer** which produces **jobs** and a **worker** which works that jobs. So data goes from the producer to the worker through the tube.

With Webgriffe ESB you integrate different systems by only implementing workers and producers. The framework will take care about the rest.

Webgriffe ESB is designed to use a single binary which is used as a main entry point of the whole application; all the producers and workers are started and executed by a single PHP binary. This is possible by using [Amp](http://amphp.org/) concurrency framework.

Installation
------------
Require this package using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):

```bash
composer require webgriffe/esb
```

Configuration
-------------
Copy the sample configuration file into your ESB root directory:

```bash
cp vendor/webgriffe/esb/esb.yml.sample ./esb.yml
```

The `esb.yml` file is the main configuration of your ESB application, where you have to define flows with their worker and producer services.

```yaml
services:
  _defaults:
    autowire: true                  # This is optional (see https://symfony.com/doc/current/service_container/autowiring.html)

  My\Esb\Producer:                  # A producer service definition
    arguments: []

  My\Esb\Worker:                    # A worker service definition
    arguments: []


flows:
  sample_flow:                      # The flow "code" and will be the Beanstalkd tube name
    description: Sample Flow        # The flow description
    producer:
      service: My\Esb\Producer      # A producer service ID defined above
    worker:
      service: My\Esb\Worker        # A worker service ID defined above
      instances: 1                  # The number of worker instances to spawn for this flow
      release_delay: 0              # The jobs release delay in seconds for this flow (see the Beanstalkd protocol here https://github.com/beanstalkd/beanstalkd/blob/master/doc/protocol.txt)
      max_retry: 5                  # The number of maximum work retries for a job in this tube/flow before being buried

```

The `services` section is where you have to define your worker and producer services using the syntax of the [Symfony Dependency Injection](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection.html) component.

The `flows` section is where you have to define your ESB flows. Every flow must refer to a producer and a worker service defined in the `services` section.

You also have to define some parameters under the `parameters` section, refer to the `esb.yml.sample` file for more informations about required parameters. Usually it's better to isolate parameters in a `parameters.yml` file which can be included in the `esb.yml` as follows:

```yaml
# esb.yml
imports:
  - { resource: parameters.yml}

services:
  # ...

flows:
  # ...
```

```yaml
# parameters.yml
parameters:
  beanstalkd: tcp://127.0.0.1:11300
  # Other parameters here ...
```

Refer to the [sample configuration file](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/blob/master/esb.yml.sample) for the complete list of parameters and for more information about the configuration of your ESB.

Producers
---------

A producer can be any service whose class implements the `ProducerInterface`. Anyway implementing only the `ProducerInterface` is not enough. Every producer must implement also one of the supported *producer type* interfaces. This is because the framework must know when to invoke every producer. At the moment we support the following producer types:

* `RepeatProducerInterface`: these producers are invoked repeatedly every fixed interval.
* `CrontabProducerInterface`: these producers are invoked when their [crontab expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron#CRON_expression) matches.
* `HttpRequestProducerInterface`: these producers are invoked when the ESB's HTTP server receives a corresponding HTTP request.

Refer to these interfaces in the source code for more information.
The `produce` method of the `ProducerInterface` must return an Amp's [Iterator](https://amphp.org/amp/iterators/), this allows you to produce a collection of jobs with a single `produce` invocation. Moreover iterators allows to have long running produce operations which are executed asyncronously.

Also, keep in mind that **you should never use I/O blocking function calls inside your producers**. Look for [Amp](https://amphp.org/) or [ReactPHP](https://reactphp.org) libraries when you need to do I/O operations.

See the dummy producers in the [tests/](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/tree/master/tests) directory for some examples.

Workers
-------

A worker can be any service whose class implements the `WorkerInterface`. Every worker is invoked immediatly when a job is available on its flow's tube.

The `work` method of a worker must return an Amp's [Promise](https://amphp.org/amp/promises/) that must resolve when the job is worked succesfully. Otherwise the `work` method must throw an exception.

When a worker successfully works a job the ESB framwork deletes it from the tube. Instead, when a worker fails to work a job the ESB framework keeps it in the tube for a maximum of a `max_retry` times, then the job is **buried** and a critical event is logged.

Like for producers, **you should never use I/O blocking function calls inside your workers**. Look for [Amp](https://amphp.org/) or [ReactPHP](https://reactphp.org) libraries when you need to do I/O operations.

See the dummy workers in the [tests/](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/tree/master/tests) directory for some examples.

Initialization
--------------

`WorkerInterface` and `ProducerInterface` support boths an `init` method which is called by the ESB framework at the boot phase.

The `init` method must return an Amp's [Promise](https://amphp.org/amp/promises/). This allows you to perform initialization operations asyncronously (for example instantiating a SOAP client with a remote WSDL URL).

Unit testing
------------

You can (and should) also unit test your workers and producers. Because workers and producers must return promises and iterators you have to use the Amp loop inside your tests. You should also use the [amphp/phpunit-util](https://github.com/amphp/phpunit-util) to reset the loop state between tests.

Unit test example
-----------------

Here follows an example of a producer test which verify that the producer produces stock inventory update jobs based on an XML file in a given directory.

```php
public function testShouldProduceMultipleJobsWithMultipleEntriesFile()
{
    filesystem(new BlockingDriver());
    vfsStream::setup();
    $this->importFile = vfsStream::url('root/stock.xml');
    $this->producer = new Stock($this->importFile);
    copy(__DIR__ . '/StockTestFixtures/multiple_entries.xml', $this->importFile);

    $this->jobs = [];
    Loop::run(
        function () use ($data) {
            $iterator = $this->producer->produce($data);
            while (yield $iterator->advance()) {
                $this->jobs[] = $iterator->getCurrent();
            }
        }
    );

    $this->assertCount(52, $this->jobs);
    $this->assertEquals(new Job(['sku' => 'SKU-1', 'qty' => 9519.000]), $this->jobs[0]);
    $this->assertEquals(new Job(['sku' => 'SKU-23', 'qty' => 299.000]), $this->jobs[12]);
    $this->assertEquals(new Job(['sku' => 'SKU-50', 'qty' => 2017.000]), $this->jobs[21]);
}

```

Here follows the example of a unit test for the related worker which takes the SKU and quantity to update from the job and then performs an API call to update the quantity.

```php
public function testWorksSimpleJob()
{
    $this->sessionId = random_int(1, 1000);
    $this->client = $this->prophesize(Client::class);
    $this->clientFactory = $this->prophesize(Factory::class);
    $this->clientFactory->create()->willReturn(new Success($this->client->reveal()));
    $this->worker = new Stock($this->clientFactory->reveal());

    $sku = 'SKU-1';
    $qty = 10;
    $this->client
        ->login()
        ->shouldBeCalled()
        ->willReturn(new Success($this->sessionId))
    ;
    $this->client
        ->call('cataloginventory_stock_item.update', [$sku, ['qty' => $qty, 'is_in_stock' => true]])
        ->shouldBeCalled()
        ->willReturn(new Success(true))
    ;
    $this->client->endSession()->shouldBeCalled()->willReturn(new Success());

    $job = new QueuedJob(1, ['sku' => $sku, 'qty' => $qty]);
    Loop::run(function () use ($job) {
        yield $this->worker->init();
        yield $this->worker->work($job);
    });
}
```

Web Console
-----------

A web console UI is available and allows to inspect tubes and jobs; is it also possible to search jobs and kick or delete them. The web console is currentyl only available under HTTP (not HTTPS) and must be configured using the following parameters:

```yaml
# esb.yml
parameters:
  # ...
  console_port: 8080                      # Web console port
  console_username: admin                 # Web console username
  console_password: password              # Web console password
  console_log_file: /tmp/esb_console.log  # Web console server log file

# ...
```

For example, given the configuration above, you can access to the web console at the URL `http://<ip_or_hostname>:8080/` using `admin` as username and `password` as password.

The web console HTTP server must be set on a different port then the one used by the `HttpRequestProducerInterface` producers (and identified by the `http_server_port` parameter).

![Web Console 1](web-console-1.png)

![Web Console 2](web-console-2.png)

![Web Console 3](web-console-3.png)

Deployment
----------
As said all workers and producers are managed by a single PHP binary. This binary is located at `vendor/bin/esb`. So to deploy and run your ESB application all you have to do is to deploy your application as any other PHP application (for example using [Deployer](https://deployer.org/)) and make sure that `vendor/bin/esb` is always running (we suggest to use [Supervisord](http://supervisord.org/) for this purpose).

Keep in mind that the `vendor/bin/esb` binary logs its operations to `stdout` and errors using `error_log()` function. With a standard PHP CLI configuration all the `error_log()` entries are then redirected to `stderr`. This is done through [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog)'s [StreamHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/StreamHandler.php) and [ErrorHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/ErrorLogHandler.php) handlers. Moreover all warning (or higher level) events are handled by the [NativeMailHander](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/NativeMailerHandler.php) (configured with `logger_mail_to` and `logger_mail_from` parameters).

You can also add your own handlers using the `esb.yml` configuration file.

Contributing
------------

To contribute simply fork this repository, do your changes and then propose a pull request.

We recommend to use Docker. Indeed a [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file is provided.

Just copy the `.env.dist` file to `.env` and adjust the environment variables values according to your environment.

For example, to **run the entire test suite** (PHP Code Sniffer, PHPStan, PHPUnit, etc...) you can simply run:

```bash
docker-compose run php composer tests
```

Or to only run PHPUnit tests you can use:

```bash
docker-compose run php vendor/bin/phpunit
```

The test suite uses the `ESB_BEANSTALKD_URL` environment variable to get the connection URL of the Beanstalkd instance. This environment variable is already set in the provided [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file.

You can also run an instance of the ESB locally using Docker. You must create an `esb.yml` configuration file in the root directory and then run:

```bash
docker-compose up
```

License
-------

This library is under the MIT license. See the complete license in the LICENSE file.

Credits
-------
Developed by [Webgriffe®](http://www.webgriffe.com/).

Commit message:

Add instructions on how to enable old jobs cleaning flow (#6)

README.md, after:

Webgriffe ESB
=============

Simple, beanstalkd powered, ESB framework.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/webgriffe/esb.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/webgriffe/esb)

Introduction
------------

Webgriffe ESB is a PHP framework that aims to speed up the development of [Enterprise Service Buses](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enterprise_service_bus).

It uses [Beanstalkd](http://kr.github.io/beanstalkd/) as a queue engine and it's built on top of popular open-sourced libraries like:

* [Amp](http://amphp.org/)
* [Symfony's Dependency Injection](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection.html)
* [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog)

Architecture & Core concepts
----------------------------

Integrating different systems together is a matter of data flows. With Webgriffe ESB every data flow goes, one way, from a system to another through a Beanstalkd **tube**. Every tube must have a **producer** which produces **jobs** and a **worker** which works that jobs. So data goes from the producer to the worker through the tube.

With Webgriffe ESB you integrate different systems by only implementing workers and producers. The framework will take care about the rest.

Webgriffe ESB is designed to use a single binary which is used as a main entry point of the whole application; all the producers and workers are started and executed by a single PHP binary. This is possible by using [Amp](http://amphp.org/) concurrency framework.

Installation
------------
Require this package using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/):

```bash
composer require webgriffe/esb
```

Configuration
-------------
Copy the sample configuration file into your ESB root directory:

```bash
cp vendor/webgriffe/esb/esb.yml.sample ./esb.yml
```

The `esb.yml` file is the main configuration of your ESB application, where you have to define flows with their worker and producer services.

```yaml
services:
  _defaults:
    autowire: true                  # This is optional (see https://symfony.com/doc/current/service_container/autowiring.html)

  My\Esb\Producer:                  # A producer service definition
    arguments: []

  My\Esb\Worker:                    # A worker service definition
    arguments: []


flows:
  sample_flow:                      # The flow "code" and will be the Beanstalkd tube name
    description: Sample Flow        # The flow description
    producer:
      service: My\Esb\Producer      # A producer service ID defined above
    worker:
      service: My\Esb\Worker        # A worker service ID defined above
      instances: 1                  # The number of worker instances to spawn for this flow
      release_delay: 0              # The jobs release delay in seconds for this flow (see the Beanstalkd protocol here https://github.com/beanstalkd/beanstalkd/blob/master/doc/protocol.txt)
      max_retry: 5                  # The number of maximum work retries for a job in this tube/flow before being buried

```
The `services` section is where you have to define your worker and producer services using the syntax of the [Symfony Dependency Injection](http://symfony.com/doc/current/components/dependency_injection.html) component.
In the `services` section you also find two services Webgriffe\Esb\Producer\CleanOldJobs and Webgriffe\Esb\Worker\CleanOldJobs that you should keep if you want to enable the flow that periodically deletes old jobs

The `flows` section is where you have to define your ESB flows. Every flow must refer to a producer and a worker service defined in the `services` section.
In the `flows` section you also find the definition of the clean_old_jobs_flow: you should keep it if you want old jobs to be periodically deleted.

You also have to define some parameters under the `parameters` section, refer to the `esb.yml.sample` file for more informations about required parameters. Usually it's better to isolate parameters in a `parameters.yml` file which can be included in the `esb.yml` as follows:

```yaml
# esb.yml
imports:
  - { resource: parameters.yml}

services:
  # ...

flows:
  # ...
```

```yaml
# parameters.yml
parameters:
  beanstalkd: tcp://127.0.0.1:11300
  # Other parameters here ...
```

Refer to the [sample configuration file](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/blob/master/esb.yml.sample) for the complete list of parameters and for more information about the configuration of your ESB.

Producers
---------

A producer can be any service whose class implements the `ProducerInterface`. Anyway implementing only the `ProducerInterface` is not enough. Every producer must implement also one of the supported *producer type* interfaces. This is because the framework must know when to invoke every producer. At the moment we support the following producer types:

* `RepeatProducerInterface`: these producers are invoked repeatedly every fixed interval.
* `CrontabProducerInterface`: these producers are invoked when their [crontab expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron#CRON_expression) matches.
* `HttpRequestProducerInterface`: these producers are invoked when the ESB's HTTP server receives a corresponding HTTP request.

Refer to these interfaces in the source code for more information.
The `produce` method of the `ProducerInterface` must return an Amp's [Iterator](https://amphp.org/amp/iterators/), this allows you to produce a collection of jobs with a single `produce` invocation. Moreover iterators allows to have long running produce operations which are executed asyncronously.

Also, keep in mind that **you should never use I/O blocking function calls inside your producers**. Look for [Amp](https://amphp.org/) or [ReactPHP](https://reactphp.org) libraries when you need to do I/O operations.

See the dummy producers in the [tests/](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/tree/master/tests) directory for some examples.

Workers
-------

A worker can be any service whose class implements the `WorkerInterface`. Every worker is invoked immediatly when a job is available on its flow's tube.

The `work` method of a worker must return an Amp's [Promise](https://amphp.org/amp/promises/) that must resolve when the job is worked succesfully. Otherwise the `work` method must throw an exception.

When a worker successfully works a job the ESB framwork deletes it from the tube. Instead, when a worker fails to work a job the ESB framework keeps it in the tube for a maximum of a `max_retry` times, then the job is **buried** and a critical event is logged.

Like for producers, **you should never use I/O blocking function calls inside your workers**. Look for [Amp](https://amphp.org/) or [ReactPHP](https://reactphp.org) libraries when you need to do I/O operations.

See the dummy workers in the [tests/](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/tree/master/tests) directory for some examples.

Initialization
--------------

`WorkerInterface` and `ProducerInterface` support boths an `init` method which is called by the ESB framework at the boot phase.

The `init` method must return an Amp's [Promise](https://amphp.org/amp/promises/). This allows you to perform initialization operations asyncronously (for example instantiating a SOAP client with a remote WSDL URL).

Unit testing
------------

You can (and should) also unit test your workers and producers. Because workers and producers must return promises and iterators you have to use the Amp loop inside your tests. You should also use the [amphp/phpunit-util](https://github.com/amphp/phpunit-util) to reset the loop state between tests.

Unit test example
-----------------

Here follows an example of a producer test which verify that the producer produces stock inventory update jobs based on an XML file in a given directory.

```php
public function testShouldProduceMultipleJobsWithMultipleEntriesFile()
{
    filesystem(new BlockingDriver());
    vfsStream::setup();
    $this->importFile = vfsStream::url('root/stock.xml');
    $this->producer = new Stock($this->importFile);
    copy(__DIR__ . '/StockTestFixtures/multiple_entries.xml', $this->importFile);

    $this->jobs = [];
    Loop::run(
        function () use ($data) {
            $iterator = $this->producer->produce($data);
            while (yield $iterator->advance()) {
                $this->jobs[] = $iterator->getCurrent();
            }
        }
    );

    $this->assertCount(52, $this->jobs);
    $this->assertEquals(new Job(['sku' => 'SKU-1', 'qty' => 9519.000]), $this->jobs[0]);
    $this->assertEquals(new Job(['sku' => 'SKU-23', 'qty' => 299.000]), $this->jobs[12]);
    $this->assertEquals(new Job(['sku' => 'SKU-50', 'qty' => 2017.000]), $this->jobs[21]);
}

```

Here follows the example of a unit test for the related worker which takes the SKU and quantity to update from the job and then performs an API call to update the quantity.

```php
public function testWorksSimpleJob()
{
    $this->sessionId = random_int(1, 1000);
    $this->client = $this->prophesize(Client::class);
    $this->clientFactory = $this->prophesize(Factory::class);
    $this->clientFactory->create()->willReturn(new Success($this->client->reveal()));
    $this->worker = new Stock($this->clientFactory->reveal());

    $sku = 'SKU-1';
    $qty = 10;
    $this->client
        ->login()
        ->shouldBeCalled()
        ->willReturn(new Success($this->sessionId))
    ;
    $this->client
        ->call('cataloginventory_stock_item.update', [$sku, ['qty' => $qty, 'is_in_stock' => true]])
        ->shouldBeCalled()
        ->willReturn(new Success(true))
    ;
    $this->client->endSession()->shouldBeCalled()->willReturn(new Success());

    $job = new QueuedJob(1, ['sku' => $sku, 'qty' => $qty]);
    Loop::run(function () use ($job) {
        yield $this->worker->init();
        yield $this->worker->work($job);
    });
}
```

Web Console
-----------

A web console UI is available and allows to inspect tubes and jobs; is it also possible to search jobs and kick or delete them. The web console is currentyl only available under HTTP (not HTTPS) and must be configured using the following parameters:

```yaml
# esb.yml
parameters:
  # ...
  console_port: 8080                      # Web console port
  console_username: admin                 # Web console username
  console_password: password              # Web console password
  console_log_file: /tmp/esb_console.log  # Web console server log file

# ...
```

For example, given the configuration above, you can access to the web console at the URL `http://<ip_or_hostname>:8080/` using `admin` as username and `password` as password.

The web console HTTP server must be set on a different port then the one used by the `HttpRequestProducerInterface` producers (and identified by the `http_server_port` parameter).

![Web Console 1](web-console-1.png)

![Web Console 2](web-console-2.png)

![Web Console 3](web-console-3.png)

Deployment
----------
As said all workers and producers are managed by a single PHP binary. This binary is located at `vendor/bin/esb`. So to deploy and run your ESB application all you have to do is to deploy your application as any other PHP application (for example using [Deployer](https://deployer.org/)) and make sure that `vendor/bin/esb` is always running (we suggest to use [Supervisord](http://supervisord.org/) for this purpose).

Keep in mind that the `vendor/bin/esb` binary logs its operations to `stdout` and errors using `error_log()` function. With a standard PHP CLI configuration all the `error_log()` entries are then redirected to `stderr`. This is done through [Monolog](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog)'s [StreamHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/StreamHandler.php) and [ErrorHandler](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/ErrorLogHandler.php) handlers. Moreover all warning (or higher level) events are handled by the [NativeMailHander](https://github.com/Seldaek/monolog/blob/master/src/Monolog/Handler/NativeMailerHandler.php) (configured with `logger_mail_to` and `logger_mail_from` parameters).

You can also add your own handlers using the `esb.yml` configuration file.

Contributing
------------

To contribute simply fork this repository, do your changes and then propose a pull request.

We recommend to use Docker. Indeed a [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file is provided.

Just copy the `.env.dist` file to `.env` and adjust the environment variables values according to your environment.

For example, to **run the entire test suite** (PHP Code Sniffer, PHPStan, PHPUnit, etc...) you can simply run:

```bash
docker-compose run php composer tests
```

Or to only run PHPUnit tests you can use:

```bash
docker-compose run php vendor/bin/phpunit
```

The test suite uses the `ESB_BEANSTALKD_URL` environment variable to get the connection URL of the Beanstalkd instance. This environment variable is already set in the provided [`docker-compose.yml`](https://github.com/webgriffe/esb/blob/master/docker-compose.yml) file.

You can also run an instance of the ESB locally using Docker. You must create an `esb.yml` configuration file in the root directory and then run:

```bash
docker-compose up
```

License
-------

This library is under the MIT license. See the complete license in the LICENSE file.

Credits
-------
Developed by [Webgriffe®](http://www.webgriffe.com/).
